Process notes

Researching tutorials and looking at popular browser translators for inspiration and ideas for features, design etc

Created html, css and js files
First focussed on designing ui
Created sections on html to plan what ill need before coding
Created sections for each box on page
Formatted so that they were next to eachother - process called flexbox

Came up with more ideas:
language selectors would have to be dropdown menus
Could make page navigation bar to an about page, help page etc
If text is too long, scroll down within box or make text smaller to fit
Want to have initial text in boxes that is replaced once user types stuff

Basic dropdowns created - for now, doesn't need to be complicated.
For future - will have to link translation language to dropdown selection.
In future, could make code that if input is detected as English, automatically changes to English

Basic UI creation done (enough to be able to start coding input and output), next need to code user input within textbox that replaces existing text
Created text input using form & textarea. Placeholder text is displayed before user input. Will link input to js to translate the test and display is in output box.

Need to make translation software before making output field else there is no output
Morse code translator created manually
Created morse code and alphabet arrays in js - while it doesn't use APIs, helps build my understanding of js to make using APIs later easier.
Idea is to get input text, identify it with alphabet array, and change it into corresponding morse code array value and present as output.
Needs to work vice versa too

morse translator works
	future features: help page about formatting morse to get correct translation - only appears if morse is selected as input language

Changed code so dropdown values dont have to be defined in html, but in java
- morse code logic still works

Finished UI for now. Created buttons for copy, text to speech, about, GitHub link, theme selectors, but aren't coded yet

coded github link

want to make about button a collapsible box of text that 'overlays' the rest of the page and closes when clicked off

ADDITIONAL FEATURE: TYPE TO SEARCH DROPDOWN LANGUAGES

If code doesn't identify input text as selected input dropdown language, just paste input text as output text.

Found an API: mymemory
Use a url to link api. Use input text and language dropdowns as variables, api does all the work. Need to use language text that api recognises e.g - if it is es, will identify as Spanish -  CALLED ISO LANGUAGE CODE

CURRENT TEXT TO SPEECH DOESNT OUTPUT OTHER LANGUAGES - need to change so if text language is French, output language is French etc

To consider: make translation happen upon input, without buttons?
- done. when changes are made to input box, calls translate function so translation updates after input.

To consider: use api to translate morse code to other languages, keep my English to morse versions